Gifted World: Hi! Shogun! This is Janani. Here one second.
Sowmya A: Hi, Jenny!
Gifted World: My audio isn't working, so I'll just join from my phone.
Sowmya A: Sure I mean I can hear you.
krithika S: Can you see that.
Sowmya A: Alright good to go.
Sreenath C: Hi Namaste, sir.
Sowmya A: Namaste.
Sowmya A: Good to see a lot of you.
Sowmya A: There's some demo good afternoon, Pdmm, Pm
Sowmya A: Hmm
Sowmya A: yeah, for the 20.
Pushpa A: Good afternoon.
Sowmya A: Hello, Ranjit!
Ranjith P C: And good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. All.
Pushpa A: Good afternoon. All good afternoon, Alita.
Ranjith P C: Good afternoon, ma'am. Good afternoon. Sunset.
Sreenath C: Good afternoon, sir.
Pushpa A: Oh! Hi! Charlotte!
Pushpa A: Namaste.
Sowmya A: Did you all have a good week so far?
Pushpa A: Yeah, yeah, pull in, zoom. Till then I've come back to school.
Sowmya A: Yeah.
Sowmya A: just give it another couple of minutes and see if people are able to join.
Rama K S: Sir.
Rama K S: Excuse me, sir. I had a.
Sowmya A: Yes, yes.
Rama K S: Regarding the feedback form, because after I submitted it twice, once I submitted again. It asked me to, you know. Give the feedback. Then one more mail I received for giving the feedback. I just wanted to know. How will we get to know whether it is submitted or not? Soon, because continuously, I think I got 2 to 3 mains.
Sowmya A: Yeah, that shouldn't be. Actually, I mean, you should have gotten only one mail. What was it? All from the same email? Id.
Rama K S: Yeah, from the same email address.
Rama K S: So second time also, I did. But 3rd time I didn't, because I have to write the same thing. So.
Sowmya A: I don't know if it is done. How will we get to know whether it is submitted or not? I'm not sure.
Sowmya A: Yeah, if it says, response submitted that setting.
Rama K S: After that again I received a mail
Rama K S: submitted. Here again it said, sorry for the wrong link. Something like that.
Sowmya A: Oh!
Rama K S: I don't know.
Sowmya A: Who did it come from?
Rama K S: To others.
Sowmya A: What? What was the email? Id, from which it came?
Rama K S: One second. So the same person.
Rama K S: One second, sir, I'm checking it.
Sowmya A: Yeah.
Rama K S: So Samya Jettison, Sir.
Sowmya A: Okay.
Rama K S: Omnia, jettation only exist.
Sowmya A: Yeah, so me might have sent it. I'll check with her once. I don't think it will happen again.
Sowmya A: Yeah, I know.
Sowmya A: I think going forward. We can use the link
Sowmya A: that link itself can be used. So you don't need to. I I think we, I'll just send an email
Sowmya A: mentioning that you can fill up the feedback form, and you can use the same thing. If there is a new link, then I'll let you know.
Sowmya A: So yeah, I mean as summaries. You don't have to bother it. It once it says submitted. It will exit. You don't have to.
Rama K S: Okay. Okay. Thank you, sir.
Sowmya A: I hope all of you had a chance to look at the excel sheet that the shared Google sheet that I had put in the resources folder. So that's just to help you navigate through. You know, we are multiple links that we are always sharing. So it might become a little confusing. So we just put one place where all the links will be, and you can refer to only that for your purpose.
Sowmya A: Yes, and I think some. There was some confusion regarding the document, the blank document
Sowmya A: it is going to be used for the upcoming assignments. So so far, what we've been doing is, we've had Google forms for filling up your responses, going forward. Whatever assignments we have, you can paste it or put your response in the Google document itself for the assignments going forward. So I was just creating documents for each one of you.
Sowmya A: So I think that's why you got a notification.
Sowmya A: So yeah, going forward, you can. You can use that for your assignments responses.
Sowmya A: Sure, kid, I think we're good to start.
Sowmya A: Yeah, I think in the interest of time. Respecting the fact that you've all joined on time. So let's get started. So today we are going to discuss integers an interesting topic.
Sowmya A: Let me put it on slideshow.
Sowmya A: So
Sowmya A: there are these 3 things which are put on these images. We will be discussing. Why? Why these 3 images are there? In a bit there's a thermometer. There are some buttons.
Sowmya A: and then there's a a ledger accounting ledger.
Sowmya A: Any thoughts, anyone. Why these 3 things are there on this slide.
latha sriram: Obviously, thermometer, we measure the temperature negative and positive.
latha sriram: Similarly, income and expenditure. It is always a debit and credit, positive and negative. It's going to be
latha sriram: same is the thing with the buttons. Probably one color represents positive one. Color represents negative integers.
Sowmya A: Yes, that's true.
Sowmya A: However, what I'm going to cover is how it might. One of these
Sowmya A: might put a different perspective to how we see integers, we might each might have a different way in which we look at integers so that we
Sowmya A: look at in a bit.
Sowmya A: So let's just start off. Let's start with the basic question that we always have for any topic. Right? What are integers? And why do we even need them
Sowmya A: any thoughts on that, not able to see any other.
Sowmya A: any thoughts on that.
Sowmya A: You can also respond on the chat. If you want.
Pushpa A: Set of both the positive and negative numbers.
Pushpa A: And why do we need them? Is because we come across even negative numbers in our daily life.
Pushpa A: So it's just not sufficient to have a set of whole numbers. We need even the negative numbers also. So to learn.
Pushpa A: That is where that is how we bring them, introduce them to teachers.
Sowmya A: Okay.
Pushpa A: I mean, children know about teachers much earlier than we start in the class because they would have seen negative teachers in many places in thermometers. And I mean while recording to the temperature or in the lifts all those things. So that is
Pushpa A: why do we need them? They know that we there is something called as a negative number, and we need to learn about it.
Sowmya A: Okay, okay, any other thoughts from anyone?
Sowmya A: That account.
Sowmya A: So do you think? Just for the group? Do you think it's easy? An easy transition. When
Sowmya A: they start, all they've started with is natural numbers, positive numbers, tangible things. How do you explain a negative thing?
Sowmya A: when you say a negative thing, because before you know, before they learn about negative numbers
Sowmya A: for them, positive integers can signify objects, tangible objects.
Sowmya A: right? When they say 5 things, 4 things, 5 plus 4, 5 plus 5 plus 5 repeated.
Sowmya A: they can always associate it with an object, but when we say negative, although they may understand it.
Sowmya A: Can they understand negative things? Right? They may understand. Negative flows when the lift is going up or down, they may understand negative direction, but can they understand negative things.
Sowmya A: and what is the right time to introduce that concept to them?
latha sriram: Actually, they do understand, sir, in the sense. Suppose there are 8 kids, and I say that I have only 5 chocolates.
latha sriram: I don't have 3 they really understand. So where does that role of negative integer comes in when I do not have something. But then I have to give that. So how many more I need. This is what we generally introduce when we introduce also. And we basically for 6, th we introduce like this, walking forward. I just walk forward. How many steps did I walk? Then I come back, but but I'll not come back to the original point where I started.
latha sriram: so I'll make them understand what happens sometimes. What I what I'll do is I'll walk towards the right, less number of steps, but then towards the left. When I'm moving back, I'll walk more steps.
latha sriram: so they will say, You move 2 steps extra, ma'am, towards the left.
latha sriram: So when they say that yes, here is where this negative integer comes into play.
latha sriram: We can explain in 600 like this, I don't know about junior classes whether it's possible to interest, introduce negative numbers in those classes.
Sowmya A: Yeah.
Sowmya A: So just 1 point. If you notice that.
Sowmya A: that's why I had that 3 images on the
Sowmya A: on the 1st slide. Basically, if we look at tangible things as soon as we go into negative numbers, we, the examples that we give tend to be more about direction. So we move from an accounting concept of integers where we are saying, add and subtract things, but as soon as we add things more mainly, and then you can take away something only when you have enough to give.
Sowmya A: so if I have 5 objects, I can give away 3.
Sowmya A: But if I have 3 objects, can I give away 5.
Sowmya A: That concept is not so readily acceptable compared to when I convert that into a scenario of moving in a direction? Because as soon as I say, direction, this example of steps that you gave it becomes easier to explain negative numbers. So are we also changing context when we move from positive number examples to negative number examples. And if we are doing that.
Sowmya A: then is this causing some kind of a confusion in the minds of children? Because.
latha sriram: Can you afford it?
Sowmya A: Samples, also changes.
latha sriram: When you say negative numbers, children come up with so many examples without even you opening your mouth.
latha sriram: Have you ever seen anything negative like numbers. Have you heard of you? Just say that they will start telling you all these negative flows? Then they will tell. Main is blood test, ma'am. We don't want it to be positive we would love it to be negative. This 600 children are given this
latha sriram: especially during covid time, and all of it is covid negative. We are very happy, ma'am, so it's not that children are totally ignorant. They do understand. We start with steps. Basically, that chocolate is also an example. We start with steps. Sometimes we even draw it in the class. If there is enough space, you know the corridor outside, and we do things make them come and stand like that and all.
latha sriram: So they do understand basic things only when negative integer that operation comes, they find it difficult, definitely subtracting negative integers, and at that point of time there is a lot of confusion.
Sowmya A: I'll take a small example for this case. Supposing I'd say 5, minus 3. So it's a very easy example to explain, saying I had 5 things, and I took away 3. How many were left? Right? 5 minus 2. Very easy to explain, with tangible things.
Sowmya A: But if I reorient that and I say, what is minus? 3 plus 5.
Sowmya A: Now, how will you explain that to a student? Or how will a student explain that? Now.
Sreenath C: Sir, normally, what? How we will start integers is using materials that is tokens.
Sreenath C: Can you hear me, sir?
Sowmya A: Yes, yes, yes, please go.
Sreenath C: So in a token you know, that's a plastic token. It's like a ₹1 coin where one side we will write P. On the side we will write. N.
Sreenath C: So we will not say that 2 children that P. Stands for positive, and N stands for negative. We will not say that, but we will say that P. Stands for profit
Sreenath C: and N stands for loss.
Sreenath C: So this is what we say, and we will start with a game called game of opposites. So their role is that they have to pick one handful of tokens from their packet. They have to spread it
Sreenath C: so they are not supposed to change the orientation in whichever way they are getting, they ought to spread it.
Sreenath C: They can pair p and n's, so the when they pair pay p and n's, the value becomes 0. This is the standard rule.
Sreenath C: So they start removing pairs of P and n, and at the end, what is their collection? So if they have 5 piece.
Sreenath C: that means they have 5 points 5. It's like a point. They are getting 5 points, and if they have 5 ends, that means they are losing 5 points. So this help them to understand that the difference between positive and negative. So we will play this game for you know, quite around 1, 1, 2, 3, or 4 classes. After that we slowly introduce to the concept of integers. So this game itself, you know, leads to addition as well as subtraction of integers. Also.
Sowmya A: So that makes really good sense. And I agree that it must be very effective as well to solve it, just just for the purpose of discussion and curiosity. Do you think somebody who's learning integers by this method
Sowmya A: where negative is also a thing right
Sowmya A: where you're saying, because it's the other flip side of the coin. So that means negative is also tangible. Right?
Sowmya A: that.
Sowmya A: How will they reconcile this with the concept of a deficit, saying, when you have money and you don't have money.
Sowmya A: there is. You don't have negative money right?
Sowmya A: But you have a deficit, so you don't have anything.
Sowmya A: So how do you, at some point of time, how will you help children? Or how will this approach help children to make that jump
Sowmya A: from knowing that negative may not be a thing. It's the lack of something conceptually
Sowmya A: does, does that is, does that even pose a problem? Or do you think the approach that you're taking. Actually.
Sowmya A: the children pick it up on their own, based on this method that you're mentioning.
Sowmya A: What do you think you feel that
Sowmya A: this could be a challenge at some point, for some students understanding the concept of a deficit versus learning it as a negative object, which is
Sowmya A: probably more like in tune with physics or the concept of matter, antimatter that kind of thing. So. But if they are looking at, that's why I mentioned these 3 different approaches. In accounting, you know that you can have a deficit. That means the lack of something
Sowmya A: is understood. Well, but it is not negative thing. It's not a negative object.
Sreenath C: Definitely, sir. See, it's not that all the children will be able to know. Understand it very clearly. But some of them will connect it with real life things. And they they get the clear meaning of negative, as you told. But the children who has problem right? Something like a below achiever and all. It is very difficult for them to understand the concept of negative numbers.
Sowmya A: So so far, what you've been using is this concept of the coins
Sowmya A: primary, positive and negative. And to explain numbers? Okay, great, that makes sense any other thoughts, any other approaches by anyone.
Radha Sharma: Good afternoon, everyone.
Radha Sharma: Sir, in I class, when we are introducing integer, the best way is using the directions, and when we are talking about means even number line also helps a lot, because after 0 there should be something when we are even taking temperature. So below 0, we are taking the temperatures.
Radha Sharma: So means taking these examples. So always, we are starting with a lift only because nowadays learners are going to Mall and all.
Radha Sharma: So there they are, taking that minus 2 minus one parking floors.
Radha Sharma: So again, 1st means make them understand that 0 is the base.
Radha Sharma: So 0 is just a middle value. So if we are coming up, then we are taking it as above sea level. That is positive values. But if we are going down, then we are taking it as negative value. So it is just a direction, even when we are adding and subtracting, using a number line.
Radha Sharma: so that time also it may, it becomes easier because in on number line learners are getting confused because they don't know, don't know the exact rule that whether we have to go right hand, side or left, hand side
Radha Sharma: addition, and subtracting and subtraction of the entities.
Radha Sharma: So it's better to use means the number line, and then telling them that if it is a negative, if we are negative, then we are going in the opposite direction.
Sowmya A: Okay.
Sowmya A: So then, how do you explain to a child who may be working on a word problem which has things like a certain child had say, the chocolate example, 5 chocolates, and he had to give it away to the other children. So then, how would understanding it from an elevator perspective.
Sowmya A: How or a number line? How would that child be able to explain it in terms of tangible things, like chocolates or money?
Radha Sharma: Means. If he is having 5 chocolates, and he has to give 8 chocolates out of that. So he is only having 5. So the 5 he can already give but 3 he also need, because he don't have that.
Radha Sharma: So 3 more chocolates he also needs, so it will be a scarcity of 3 chocolates, so we can take it as minus 3.
Sowmya A: And then how would you explain? Say, minus 3 plus minus 3 in terms of chocolates, then?
Sowmya A: Sir, can you repeat your question?
Sowmya A: Yeah. Yeah. So you said minus 3. But now, if you had to explain to him what would be minus 3 chocolates plus minus 3 chocolates, what does that mean?
Radha Sharma: Okay, so minus 3, it is means we have to.
Radha Sharma: I think inteser is telling means letting them thinking. It is not just a number and addition subtraction, we are telling them so, minus 3 minus represents that it is a lack of chocolate.
Radha Sharma: So if minus 3, and then plus means again something. Also we are taking. So minus 3, the lack of 3 chocolates, and again minus 3.
Radha Sharma: So again, more lack of more. 3 chocolate is there, so it will be minus 6 chocolates now, so it will be. Now the lack of chocolate is increasing by 3 more is minus 6. Now.
Sowmya A: Okay. So basically, you are. What I'm understanding is you are, you are able to explain lack of something as negative. It doesn't have to be
Sowmya A: something like a tangible like in an elevator. There is a ground floor, and there is a floor below that. But in case of chocolates it's you don't have it, but you can still explain it, using a negative number.
Radha Sharma: Yes, sir, because we have to explain minus sign. We are not talking about the numbers we are talking about minus sign. So if minus is written. It means they don't have that. They also need. That means, if we have to explain it, we can even call 2 or 3 students, so it will become easier for us means.
Radha Sharma: for example, if I will give 3, I'm taking 3 students from the class and then giving 5 chocolates to a student, and then telling that you have to give 8 chocolates
Radha Sharma: to the other one. But then he will say that, ma'am, I have only 5. How I, how can I give 3 8 chocolates? Then, okay, so how many more chocolates you need? So that is a 3 chocolates. He need more. So that is minus 3. It means you have a lack of 3 chocolates with you.
Radha Sharma: It's so like this. We can explain it.
MANISHA LIGADE: So we can explain that whatever chocolates you have or you're going to receive it, it will be, indicate positive integers and chocolates which you are losing or you're going, it will be negative integers.
MANISHA LIGADE: So if you, if you can tell them, then they may understand the concept, positive or negative integers.
Radha Sharma: Is one more way, sir, what we have means means just
Radha Sharma: thinking about that. Only that how to introduce in teaser in lower grades, for example, grade 6 only we are introducing in teaser.
Radha Sharma: So how? So? What we have taken? We have even made the tiles of in teasers means like color change. So negative change. Negative color means, for example, green color of tile or green color of paper. I have taken for negative in teasers and red color paper. I have taken positive. So as we are discussing this chocolate example, even, we can use that also to introduce means, discuss this or introduce in teasers.
Sowmya A: Makes sense anyone else any other thoughts.
Sowmya A: Okay.
Sowmya A: so we'll be looking at each of these approaches at some point I'm not sure if you had any of you had a chance to look at some of the documents that I put in the resources folder. One is a very nice article on how to teach integers with a similar scenario, with buttons red buttons and green buttons. I think that is similar to what you were mentioning. Where we have
Sowmya A: tangible things, and one is positive, the other is negative, and the underlying logic is positive and negative makes 0.
Sowmya A: So thereby you can bring in 0 amount of things without changing the value.
Sowmya A: and that the reason for that is so that you can take away positive things or take away negative things to suit your value. Again, I feel that's more of an algorithmic approach which
Sowmya A: absolutely makes it very easy to solve questions. But how much they can relate this to real life problems. I think we we may need to explore further.
Sowmya A: So that, let's just look at a few questions and then see how we can go about them.
Sowmya A: Let's see.
Chitra Mohan: Hello, sir!
Chitra Mohan: Am I audible?
Sowmya A: Yes, yes, chitra.
Sowmya A: Yes.
Chitra Mohan: I explain with 2 different examples. As she is saying, I don't know how far I'm successful. One is, I'll take a reference with reference to it. It is lower value and higher value
Chitra Mohan: for everything there has to be a reference. For example, if it is lift ground floor is the reference above ground, level above ground, floor, and below ground. 4. So if it is sea level, even if it is calories of weight, reduction from your current weight. Calories added calories down the same way. Take an example of a dam where red mark is given. If the water exceeds above the red, it is
Chitra Mohan: excess water, evacuated places. When it is below it is dropped. Something like that I bring in, so that they understand that negative integer, because once you say negative. I've seen children writing minus ₹5 minus. Where money cannot be negative distance cannot be negative. I don't have minus 10 kilometers. It is only the direction in whichever direction I'm opposite. So I give an example of these things like
Chitra Mohan: whichever reference it differs from place to place. If it is a ground floor like this, or if it is a number line concept comes later, then I teach them that. Let us assume that you have good qualities or positive qualities. You wake up on time, go to school on time, do your homework and other things like
Chitra Mohan: you're waking up at 7, 45, and you should come to school, it is treated as a negative.
Chitra Mohan: If you want to add the more negative. Instead of waking up early, you have wake. You're late again by 9 o'clock. It is adding more negative. When you correct your one of your negative quality, you become more positive, so your positive value increases.
Sowmya A: Yeah, that's really nice. I think.
Chitra Mohan: Like I I and that times I see children after integers. I've seen few of them packing
Chitra Mohan: their water bottles. I just list instead of helping your mother filling your own water bottle. Doing your homework and packing books is a positive quality coming to school on as a positive quality for that. You need to wake up little early. My school is at 8 o'clock. I'll wake up at 7, 45. I'll not brush. I'm in a hurry. I'll not comb. I'll not keep my books. That's considered as a negative with reference to a particular, your school
Chitra Mohan: system in a school or a disciplinary school. So the more you are doing all such things, it is added, and you become more negative, more negative qualities. So that's how I introduce. But I was not successful in subtraction, but addition, I'm successful, and I see children correcting. Next day they'll come, ma'am. I filled my water bottle. So do you think I increase my positive quality by 1 point or one number. I say, yes, so do your work. This is how I.
Sowmya A: Reducing.
Chitra Mohan: And I tell them.
Sowmya A: That's really nice, actually.
Chitra Mohan: Mostly calories, burned, calories consumed. If somebody, one child is bullied instead of telling that, I'd say not say overweight. So from today today, your weight or your body is referenced. From tomorrow you're not going for junk food, and you're reducing so reducing the calories. Lot of examples I have, I'll say specifically, don't write minus 10 kilometers
Chitra Mohan: instead of right. 10 kilometers south, 10 kilometers worth. I cannot have even the reverse direction. I cannot go more
Chitra Mohan: so. All these.
Sowmya A: Yeah.
Chitra Mohan: For example, which are in the real life. I'll be quoting a lot of such example, especially they enjoy with the dam. We have excess water. In Chennai for 2015, 1,600, we had a lot of rainwater where the people of houses have been drenched with water, so whenever I give example, they connect to it also. Okay, ma'am, once it's exceed the upper limit, it indicates lot of water in the dam, and the gates are lifted.
Chitra Mohan: The villages are so more when it is below it indicates drought, scarcity of water.
Chitra Mohan: so it is a reference to the level. What exactly existing now depth of well in the water in the well. Not only this, I have a lot of example from 1 point moving to the other in your piggy bank you have. You are dropping coin every day is positive integer. You are taking away coin because they do. They open the piggy bank and take the coins.
Sowmya A: Yeah.
Chitra Mohan: So your money reduced by a small quantity.
Sowmya A: Yeah, that's good.
Sowmya A: These are the most of the most of the.
Chitra Mohan: I don't have.
Sowmya A: Think you've.
Chitra Mohan: But this water bottle filling alone I have experienced. The next day they'll come and say, ma'am, I filled my water bottle. I didn't depend on my mother.
Sowmya A: Yeah.
Sowmya A: yeah, I think those are good examples, because you've covered deficit as well as directions understanding the lack of something as negative as well as using negative as a direction. It's not a lack of something, it's more of a direction. And that's what I was trying to.
Chitra Mohan: Yes.
Sowmya A: Indicate. So what you'll do.
Chitra Mohan: Oh!
Sowmya A: We.
Chitra Mohan: Thanks.
Sowmya A: Very good.
Chitra Mohan: And I insist on the reference point changes from one place to other place. If it's integer number, I have 0. If it's a building. It is ground floor. If it is submarine or plane, it is sea level. So with reference, I have a reference above that reference and below the reference. I get that concept.
Sowmya A: Yeah, that actually is very, very nice. The fact that you are always mentioning a reference point. I think it's a very good place to start for, you know, in terms of math.
Sowmya A: to always mention a reference point. I think if they understand reference frames and reference points earlier, it's it's going to help them a lot later.
Sowmya A: So that's a good thing. So what I'll do now is, I'll
Sowmya A: put a question on the this thing on the screen. And then hopefully, we should have some breakout rooms where we can move into. And then discuss basically, this particular question, what would you think is the best approach for this? What do you think, students, how would students approach this problem.
latha sriram: Excuse me. Do you mind going to slideshow?
Sona M: Slides.
Sowmya A: Yeah, I will. I will. But I just want to set up generally, will. Is Siddharth going to set up the
Sowmya A: breakout rooms.
Janani Eswar: I spoke in. I've set it up.
Sowmya A: You set it up so I can ask them to move to each of the rooms. I'll just put the names.
Sowmya A: No, I've chat.
Janani Eswar: I can just open it, and you'll they'll all get. Everyone will get a notification to go to their correct room. Just let me know when you would like to open it.
Sowmya A: Yeah, I think we can start now, we can start now. So basically, for for all of you participants, we'll put about 5 of you in a breakout room, a group of 5, and
Sowmya A: I'll share a
Sowmya A: folder location where there is a document for each breakout room and or what you need to do is as a group discuss on what might be the best approach to solving this particular question, and where students might have a challenge in solving this question. So as a small group, you can discuss this and make your notes in that Google document.
Sowmya A: And then, after, say, about 5, 10 min, we can come back and then discuss as a group what our findings are. Okay? So I just
Sowmya A: mention what the documents are for each, the link for each document. I'll put it in the chat.
Janani Eswar: Once you've shared that I'll open up the room shaky.
Sowmya A: Yeah, thank you. Let me just go to the chat down.
Sowmya A: So this is the folder here. You will see documents
Sowmya A: break with the title, Breakout room, one breakout room, 2. Breakout room 3 like that. So whichever is your and your name will be mentioned in the document. So if I open up just one, maybe that might be easier for you to understand.
Janani Eswar: Great. So I'm opening the room. Shakur.
Sowmya A: Sorry.
Janani Eswar: Should I go ahead and open the rooms?
Sowmya A: Yeah, yeah, okay. So each room has the name of the participants. So with, what are the questions you may want to answer?
Sowmya A: And the question is on the screen. I'll put it on slideshow.
Sowmya A: no
Sowmya A: at any point, if you have doubts, you can reach to reach out to me.
Janani Eswar: Wait. I think everyone's in their breakout rooms. Okay.
Sowmya A: Yeah, it looks like that. And.
Janani Eswar: So I'll go ahead and drop off for the moment. Then.
Sowmya A: Yeah, thank, you.
Janani Eswar: Super you're you are familiar with how to manage them. If if you want to change anything in the breakout room.
Sowmya A: Not much. But supposing if I if I want them to come back and then go back to a breakout room, then what do I do?
Janani Eswar: So there's this option in the bottom of your screen. There'll be this option called breakout rooms, usually next to the polls, and quizzes option.
Sowmya A: Yeah, yeah.
Janani Eswar: Yes, and then there's a space called Broadcast.
Janani Eswar: So when you click the broadcast option you'll get the cha chance to share your voice across all the rooms.
Janani Eswar: So it's like you can call people back, or you can let them know there's 5 min left, or like something like that.
Janani Eswar: and if you would like to chat with all of them or send them a message, it's also available in the chat.
Janani Eswar: So when you go to the main chat and your message. Everyone can see it.
Sowmya A: Okay? And supposing when they come back and how do they go back to their breakout rooms again? So they just choose it from the dropdown right.
Janani Eswar: To how you see breakout rooms. They will see.
Sowmya A: Sir, we need the question in the rooms, sir. We are not getting the question there.
Sowmya A: so if I have to broadcast this slide, how will I do this in the room.
Janani Eswar: Can we put it onto the Google Doc that they are using.
Sowmya A: Okay, I'll have to put it on each of the dogs.
Janani Eswar: Yes.
latha sriram: How do I join back my room, Jenny, ma'am?
Janani Eswar: So let them. You'll see in the bottom. Those options that are there. Now, Chat, raise hand those things. There'll be one option that says breakout room or join breakout room something like that. Do you see that
Janani Eswar: if you don't see it immediately, it will be under the more option with 3 dots.
latha sriram: Just checking.
latha sriram: Yeah, thank you.
Janani Eswar: Hi manisha, ma'am.
MANISHA LIGADE: Yes, sir.
Janani Eswar: Hi, ma'am, so I you are probably here because you couldn't see the question in your Google, Doc, right.
MANISHA LIGADE: I saw it. But there is no access. We don't have access to anything right.
Janani Eswar: You don't have access to edit the document. Is that what you're saying?
MANISHA LIGADE: We yeah.
Janani Eswar: Okay. Sharkin. We will need 2 seconds.
Sowmya A: I will check. I think I did give access to everyone. So anybody with the link should be able to.
Janani Eswar: Thank you, Manisha, ma'am, so that should be set right now.
MANISHA LIGADE: Okay, thank you. So we have to solve it right now.
Janani Eswar: Yes, please.
MANISHA LIGADE: Okay.
Janani Eswar: So in your breakout, in your in the bottom of your screen there will be this option called more, and then it will show you an option to join Breakout room
Janani Eswar: so you could head back into your room, and even the Google Doc will be available.
MANISHA LIGADE: Okay, okay. So once we are done, we can back to this meeting right?
Janani Eswar: Yes, and Shaokin will let you know, I guess if if they're up or something.
MANISHA LIGADE: Well.
Sowmya A: Yeah, like.
Janani Eswar: I.
Sowmya A: So I'm getting used to it.
Janani Eswar: Yeah Senaina, ma'am. Hello.
Suneyna CP: Yes, yes, ma'am, I want to join Breakout Room number 5. My network is not good here, so just can you let me in.
Janani Eswar: Wednesday, like.
Suneyna CP: Yeah.
Janani Eswar: You should have gotten the notification.
Janani Eswar: Hi, manisha, ma'am!
Janani Eswar: Hi, manisha, ma'am.
MANISHA LIGADE: Yes, ma'am.
Janani Eswar: Hi any issues.
MANISHA LIGADE: Yes, yes, I'm trying.
Janani Eswar: Hello!
Janani Eswar: Hi, vitam! I'm Ruhani, ma'am. Rama, ma'am.
Rama K S: Hello!
Roohani Sareen: So, ma'am.
Rama K S: It was not shared, so we thought, we'll come back to the.
Roohani Sareen: Yeah.
Janani Eswar: So? Which part does not check. Sorry, the Google, the Google Doc, or the problem. What is the issue that you have.
Roohani Sareen: No? So when we went to the are we in the breakout room as of now?
Janani Eswar: You're right now in the main room.
Rama K S: Thank you.
Roohani Sareen: Yeah, so there is nothing seen actually. But I mean, somehow, we click the picture of the question.
Roohani Sareen: So.
Janani Eswar: In the chat. This link.
Roohani Sareen: Chat.
Janani Eswar: That says, breakout rooms. Hyphen, Google drive. So according to which group you're in, please open your Google, Doc, and you can check it out.
Roohani Sareen: Okay.
Rama K S: Oh, my God!
latha sriram: Okay, ma'am, we are not getting the question over there in that room. Breakout room.
Janani Eswar: Yeah.
Roohani Sareen: Okay.
Janani Eswar: This message is being added to the Google Doc, ma'am. So if you just keep in 1 min, the question will be on the Google, Doc.
latha sriram: Where is the Doc?
Janani Eswar: So the doc is in the chat.
Janani Eswar: Do you see this link that says breakout rooms? I can Google that.
latha sriram: Yeah, yeah, there it is. There, is it?
Janani Eswar: Yeah.
latha sriram: Breakout room 3 is this thing. Okay.
Roohani Sareen: Yeah. Now I got it.
latha sriram: Okay. Now we have to go back to the room and parallelly. Check this if I'm right correct.
Janani Eswar: That's right, ma'am. So on this document. You'll see both the question shortly and the rest of the prompts for you to respond to.
latha sriram: Okay. Fine. Thank you.
Sona M: Breakout room is seen, or we have to click on that right hand side chats.
Janani Eswar: In the breakout room will be inside, on your bottom. The different options that are there like react, chat, and all that. You'll see this option that is, join breakout room.
Janani Eswar: So if you click that you'll go there, the chat will still be visible. You can open your Google Doc from the breakout room. Also.
Suneyna CP: Ma'am, I don't see any join room here.
Janani Eswar: See more.
Sona M: Came that time.
Suneyna CP: Yeah, more meeting settings, background and effects. Disconnect audio. That's it.
Sona M: Join breakout room, is there.
Janani Eswar: Young resources.
Suneyna CP: No, I can't. Now I'm getting yeah.
Sona M: Yeah, yeah, thank you.
Janani Eswar: Hi, Rohani, ma'am! Manisha, ma'am, are you able to see the join breakout room? Option.
Janani Eswar: Ruhani, ma'am?
Janani Eswar: Can you hear me.
Roohani Sareen: Yes, ma'am.
Janani Eswar: Hi! Are you able to see your joint breakout room? Option.
Roohani Sareen: Ma'am, I am already there in the breakout room. No.
Janani Eswar: No, no, so you're right now in the main room.
Roohani Sareen: Okay.
Janani Eswar: There it says, chat, react, raise hand, and all that.
Roohani Sareen: 1 min, ma'am.
Janani Eswar: Join breakout room. If it's not.
MANISHA LIGADE: Do we have to leave this room 1st for that.
Janani Eswar: No, no, you'll just have to click the option that says, Join breakout room. It will be under.
MANISHA LIGADE: No, I have. I have joined. I am there in room number 2. I have joined it.
Janani Eswar: No, ma'am, you are right now in the main room. Just have to click that button once more.
MANISHA LIGADE: Okay, see breakout room. I have clicked it. Then I went to. There are break route, breakout room 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 rooms. I can see if I go to second one. I my name is there.
Janani Eswar: Your name is there. Click! Join, ma'am.
MANISHA LIGADE: Yes, yeah, I have joined already, and then I can see one question over there.
Janani Eswar: Question.
Janani Eswar: I just see one question. That's it.
Janani Eswar: The Google Doc. So that is also, that's the Google Doc. You need to do. Can you open zoom again?
MANISHA LIGADE: Okay, should I go to the main meeting first? st
Janani Eswar: Yeah, go to the Zoom Meeting.
Janani Eswar: where you can see Jananeesh, your gifted world and yourself.
Janani Eswar: You can see that.
MANISHA LIGADE: No, I'm not getting it exactly what is what to do.
Janani Eswar: Can you open zoom?
MANISHA LIGADE: I'm there. See? Now I'm there, the main main meeting. Okay. Now I going to chat.
Janani Eswar: Not in the chat, not in the chat. Hold on 1 min, so near the chat, icon, you'll see, react, raise hand, all of that. Do you see? One more option with 3 dots in a circle.
MANISHA LIGADE: Okay.
MANISHA LIGADE: Yeah. Hmm.
Janani Eswar: Do you see an option called Join breakout room.
MANISHA LIGADE: Yes.
Janani Eswar: Just click that. Please.
latha sriram: Hi! Letta, ma'am, Sona, ma'am, we are back. After the discussion.
Janani Eswar: Okay, finished. It.
latha sriram: Yeah, all of us.
Janani Eswar: Okay, great. I was worried. There was more technical problems. Okay.
Sona M: Superb.
Janani Eswar: The I'll just check in with Sharkin. I think he's having some Internet issue. He just dropped off for a second. Give me a minute. I'll just call him and check in.
latha sriram: Thank you.
Sowmya A: I hope all of you have found your breakout rooms. If there's any question or
Sowmya A: doubt, just let me know.
Janani Eswar: Hi, so we've had one group finish what they needed to, and they've come back in as well.
Sowmya A: Okay.
Janani Eswar: Shakin. Would you like me to bring people back? Give them a 1 min warning.
Janani Eswar: You're muted.
Sowmya A: Yeah, yeah, that. That's right. Yeah.
Janani Eswar: Okay.
Sowmya A: Yeah.
Suneyna CP: Per odd number. In that way we can teach right the powers
Suneyna CP: so minus one to the power of 3.
Suneyna CP: So in that case they'll minus one into minus one into minus one.
Suneyna CP: In that case it is fine. It is again negative integer. They'll get.
Chitra Mohan: No, ma'am, the ordering concept. If it is same number no, then we will not be asking
Chitra Mohan: about this using the Delta where the value is not known.
Chitra Mohan: My ordering capacity, or if I've understood that higher the number lesser the in the negative side, it is better minus.
Chitra Mohan: If they are thorough. With that automatically they will understand that products
Chitra Mohan: multiply a negative number by a positive number. It gives me a negative number.
Suneyna CP: Negative, number.
Chitra Mohan: Absolute value.
Suneyna CP: Correct.
Chitra Mohan: In such cases chances of going to the positive answer. The other misconception would be delta plus 2.
Suneyna CP: Minus 9 plus 2.
Chitra Mohan: There is one option, 2 minus delta. There is another option with Delta divided by 2 and plus 2.
Chitra Mohan: If I place my negative number in the beginning.
Suneyna CP: Bye.
Chitra Mohan: I am adding, and I may get a greater value. That misconception I've seen with the children.
Suneyna CP: Okay.
Chitra Mohan: Minus 3 plus 2, they end up writing plus 2, 5.
Chitra Mohan: So they think that better value.
Suneyna CP: Correct.
Chitra Mohan: But rarely, it could be a 15% like that
Chitra Mohan: for few of them, only it is when the negative integer in the second part as a minute end or add end or somewhere, they are okay. But otherwise, if the negative integer comes first, st I've seen children seeing the plus 2, they'll add it.
Suneyna CP: Correct, correct.
Chitra Mohan: Out of 32 or 3 will do this.
Chitra Mohan: thinking that it becomes positive, and it will increase the value.
Janani Eswar: You're be able to.
Janani Eswar: Sorry to interrupt. Just wanted to let you let shock. You know that everyone's back shopping.
Sowmya A: Thank you.
Suchita Kadambi: Sir, I think, Ranjit, sir, I think our discussion is already there in the chat. It's chat to everyone.
Suchita Kadambi: so I don't think I need to put it in a word, file.
Ranjith P C: Oh, yeah, yeah, that's fine. I for our.
Chitra Mohan: Can you go back.
Ranjith P C: Few future reference. You can keep it, ma'am.
Suchita Kadambi: Okay, sir. Okay, sir.
Suneyna CP: Can we go back.
Sowmya A: Yeah.
Sowmya A: So I think I hope all of you had a good discussion on this. Any
Sowmya A: thoughts or thoughts from the discussion that you had amongst yourselves that you found important or significant, that others might also benefit from it.
Sowmya A: and anybody would like to share.
Madhura shetty: This is.
Suchita Kadambi: I think you can discuss our group, whatever we discussed you can.
Sowmya A: Yeah, if one person from each group.
Ranjith P C: Yeah, I sujita, ma'am. You continue, ma'am. I mean, I think you have collected all the points I'll add on.
Suchita Kadambi: So the 1st point that we discussed was we had to identify the number. The value of Delta generally. Children take it like a, you know, measuring scale 0 is always a starting point, like the delta value. They will think, that is, you know, the starting point. They will not see. It is to the left of 0 or to the right of 0. So 1st is identification of the value of delta.
Suchita Kadambi: That is the 1st thing, then, second thing, that for the 1st question is, they generally see the operation. They think that division or subtraction always when you perform it, the value is always smaller, you get a smaller answer. So that is the second thing for the 1st question.
Suchita Kadambi: then how do they, as generally what children do is through the trial and error method, they assume a value, and on that value they perform the operations and check out. And finally, as Chitra, ma'am said, they should know how to move the value on the number line. Like, if you go to the left, the value decreases. If you move to the right, the value increases that number line concept has to be clear to them.
Sowmya A: So my question to you is, when a student is going through, say, for the 1st option, which says, 2 minus delta.
Sowmya A: how does he understand what that value will come out to be.
Suchita Kadambi: The child must know operations or integers first.st That is also, that is what we have discussed.
Sowmya A: Yeah. So since Delta doesn't have a value, all we know is delta is to the left of 0. How does the student reason of what the value of it.
Suchita Kadambi: He picks up through trial and error Delta to the left of 0. He picks up a number randomly, say, to the left of 0. You have minus one or minus 2. I take minus one minus one minus 2 gives me minus 3, minus one into 2 gives me minus 2. So he just picks up a random. That is the most common method, trial, and error method.
Ranjith P C: So what she is trying to tell you, sir. I mean, it's if the child pick up the value, delta random trial under another say, Delta is equal to minus 4. So 2 minus delta will become 2 plus 4. Finally, and you get the answer, 6. Okay, so that is one way the child approached. I mean, what we are trying to say is, the initial thought itself will go into the child. That. Okay, let me take that
Ranjith P C: delta value some value and substitute and get. So that's 1 approach itself, you know. And when you give them a scaffolding, and you know, as the shell progress through the cell may tend to use the number line and see that thing where the number is coming, and the question itself the value less. That point has to be emphasized by the teacher when teaching.
Ranjith P C: So now there are 2 instances. In instances we discussed. The child will 1st think that you know, the subtraction will reduce the value and division also. That is their pre knowledge. The knowledge they have with, you know, from the you know, primary classes. So that way they start thinking. Now this this option, if you pick it up, they tend to move in the direction of trial and error, and get some answer and conclude it. That is what.
Ranjith P C: So you're saying, the most common method would be trial and error for students.
Ranjith P C: This this the the in 2 minus delta. I'm trying to say that particular option. Yeah, yeah.
Sowmya A: Yeah, yeah, okay, any other use.
Chitra Mohan: So 2 minus delta. The misconception could be. When I subtract a negative integer from a positive integer, the value will be higher for them. Positive is we taught with the reference I myself I told so. When it is above 0 it will have a greater value when it is below 0. It is a lesser value, so greater, minus lesser value will be greater.
Sowmya A: How if you basically, it's saying greater minus.
Chitra Mohan: Smaller.
Sowmya A: Value. Yeah, so.
Chitra Mohan: I don't go for minus of minus, but I think that from a value which is above 0, I'm subtracting a value which is below 0. So I'll be getting a little higher value. They will not tend to think in other direction. This could be a lesser percentage.
Chitra Mohan: I was speaking about one of the options in one particular option out of a class of 33 to 4 I've seen doing delta plus 2, that when the negative integer is given in the first.st
Chitra Mohan: If they're not clear about the concept of absolute value, then they end up giving a different answer. It's a misconception 2 minus 3. They think that minus 3 plus 2 is different.
Sowmya A: Hmm! That's what I wanted to ask.
Chitra Mohan: 2 minus of minus 3 and minus 3 plus 2. They assume it to be this, they don't see difference, so they think that it is only addition, and they end up giving some answer, the Ca, option and C option.
Chitra Mohan: Actually, I think they mean the same.
Sowmya A: Okay, okay, so,
Chitra Mohan: When absolute value is not into them. Very properly they end up doing such a misconception.
Sowmya A: Okay, thank you. So anyone from room number 2 would like to discuss their findings.
Sowmya A: Krishna Kritika.
krithika S: Yes, sir.
Sowmya A: Yeah.
krithika S: So for how would students usually attempt this question? So we thought, they will fix a value for the Delta.
krithika S: and they will use all the options, they will try one by one, the same delta value it will be for everything. So one by one they will check the option.
krithika S: So this most of them will go for this method.
krithika S: some of them they will directly go for this division and subtraction.
krithika S: They will choose either division or subtraction.
Sowmya A: Hmm, okay.
krithika S: So what are the common mistakes or conceptual gaps? They will get confused with this positive and negative integers.
krithika S: So compare, once they get the value they will confuse with this even the comparison. If they get minus 3 and minus 5 as one value, they will get confused, which is lesser than this, that confusion will happen.
krithika S: in that they will choose a wrong answer.
Sowmya A: Hmm!
Sowmya A: So what you're saying is, most students will attempt this by taking actual values
krithika S: Yeah, they will.
Sowmya A: Fixer.
krithika S: Value for this. Yes.
krithika S: because I think so. This kind of question mostly, as all the operations are there, I think it will come for 7th only in 6 standard. We will not do this question so as it comes to 7, standard side by side, they are doing the linear equations also. So once they see a symbol or a value, immediately their mind will go for substituting a value.
Sowmya A: Good.
Sowmya A: Hmm, so how about option? C. How do students
Sowmya A: evaluate option? C. Is delta divided by 2?
Sowmya A: How would we be thinking about.
krithika S: If they choose the value as minus one, so minus one divided by 2, most of them should know it lies between 0 and minus one. So when they choose a check for the other options, they have to check it properly, but some of them immediately by us, seeing the division symbol. It is a lower value. They will
krithika S: select that option.
Sowmya A: Hmm, okay, thank you.
Sowmya A: Yeah.
Sowmya A: Thank you for that. Room number 3.
Sowmya A: Rt, Lata Mohamm.
Sowmya A: So now she not.
Aarthy B: Yeah, sir, I think, also spoke what we also felt was A and 3, where A and C, where you had a subtraction under division.
Aarthy B: The idea of the value becoming smaller is one misconception we could find, and again, with trial and error also the order in which the options are given, so the moment they encounter the 1st correct ones, which which will satisfy they might stop there, or might not try to explore
Aarthy B: if they take minus one or minus 2, it might not give a definite, definite answer, so they might not again, trial and error. There are 2 issues. One is choosing the value.
Aarthy B: and second, if one satisfies on the 1st one that satisfies, they will stop.
Aarthy B: they don't explore all the further options. So the thought of trying with another number. Why is it satisfying? Why, 2 things are satisfying. Many of them don't go to the next at all.
Sowmya A: Well, okay, good.
Sowmya A: And you also agree that most students will be using trial and error, method and error.
Aarthy B: Yeah, sir.
Sowmya A: Okay. Okay.
Sowmya A: Thank you.
Sowmya A: Room number 4.
Sowmya A: Samar Rouhani. Vidya.
Sowmya A: Okay.
Roohani Sareen: Yes, sir, so correct answer as it is option d
Roohani Sareen: so what I have thought is one approach can be taking an example. For example, if students take negative 4
Roohani Sareen: and they will perform all the operations which are given in the options.
Roohani Sareen: and I mean the misconception can be, they might think that the numbers on the left of 0, on the number line, which are relatively away from 0 are larger than the ones which are nearer to 0, so that can be a misconception if the foundation is not that strong.
Sowmya A: So what about when they take a negative value? What if
Sowmya A: looking at option? C. How do they know whether to take minus 4 or minus one, because it could. The negative number could lie on.
Roohani Sareen: So when? Yeah, when we introduce integers. So we also tell the concept of absolute value, the modulus.
Roohani Sareen: So we like personally, when, whenever I introduce this concept, I always am giving one example of when you're going from Bangalore to Mysore, the distance is, let's say, like 150 kilometers. But when you're coming back from Mysore to Bangalore, do you take negative 150 kilometers? So I always give this example that distances are always positive.
Roohani Sareen: It's only the you know direction. So I also give an example of the difference between speed and velocity. Speed will only tell you. You know the magnitude and the velocity will tell you the magnitude plus the direction.
Roohani Sareen: So if that foundation is clear, I don't think there will be a problem in this question. But provided this cons, I mean foundation is clear.
Sowmya A: So what you're suggesting is, students will actually 1st divide using absolute values
Sowmya A: and then apply the sign to the result.
Roohani Sareen: No, sir! No, no, no.
Roohani Sareen: No, no, they can directly apply minus 4 only
Roohani Sareen: not just not just the magnitude.
Sowmya A: So why not minus one? Why won't they choose minus one? Because that's also to the left of 0.
Roohani Sareen: Yeah.
Sowmya A: It's magnitude wise. It is lesser than 2.
Roohani Sareen: Yeah, that is what should be clear to students that we are not taking the magnitude only.
Sowmya A: Page.
Roohani Sareen: We are taking the direction, because in the question itself it's saying to the left of 0, it is showing.
Sowmya A: Hmm.
Roohani Sareen: Yeah.
Sowmya A: Okay, so good. Thank you.
Sowmya A: Room 5.
Sowmya A: Madura preeta.
Madhura shetty: Yes, sir, yes, sir, we also felt children might answer this by trial and error method, by considering Delta to be a particular, taking it as some integer negative integer
Madhura shetty: but otherwise I don't think at this level they will be that much grown enough to understand that negative integer. I agree that they have to understand that negative integer. When you divide by 2, the value is going to be smaller, not bigger. But I don't think at this age they will be that capable to understand, they may only use trial and error, method.
Sowmya A: And hmm, okay.
Madhura shetty: If you're able.
Madhura shetty: If we are able to drive in that concept in their head, then we are really successful, like a negative number. When you divide by 2, it's going to be smaller when you multiply by 2. Also, it's going to be negative number. When you divide by 2. It's going to be bigger and multiply by 2. It's going to be smaller than that.
Sowmya A: Hmm, okay. But then it might change right whether that limited number is.
Madhura shetty: Yeah, what if?
Sowmya A: Minus one or minus 4. Yeah.
Madhura shetty: Have another doubt. What if it is negative into negative? Again.
Sowmya A: So minus 3, suppose it is minus 3 into minus 3.
Sowmya A: Okay.
Madhura shetty: Then how do we explain that.
Sowmya A: Exactly. What? What do you think if we'll come to that in a moment? But then, yeah, what I'm trying to get at is, can we have like a single approach which students can take, and they are always sure that it will always give them the right answer, and they don't have to look at multiple methods, each
Sowmya A: for a particular scenario that for a particular scenario one approach works, but it doesn't work for all scenarios.
Madhura shetty: Other approach exactly.
Sowmya A: Yeah, then that creates confusion. There should be just one method which should work all the time.
Madhura shetty: Exactly.
Sowmya A: Yeah.
Sowmya A: So similarly so, for example, if Delta, some student was taking Delta as minus one instead of minus 4,
Sowmya A: then minus one by 2 is
Sowmya A: basically to the right of minus 2.
Madhura shetty: Yeah.
Sowmya A: Which is lesser than which is greater than minus 2. If you take minus. Yeah, if you take minus 4
Sowmya A: by 2, it's to the left, or it's equal to minus 2 or greater than minus 4.
Sowmya A: So then, there, with this type of example that they are taking by trial and error, they may get 2 different results
Sowmya A: that creates ambiguity in their minds. Trial and error may work sometimes, but not all the time.
Roohani Sareen: Us if you mention, you know a condition
Roohani Sareen: in the question that we are talking only about integers, because minus one by 2 will tend towards rational numbers.
Sowmya A: Hmm.
Roohani Sareen: So if we put a condition that that number has to be an integer only I think that confusion can be clarified.
Radha Sharma: Sir, I think if we are, get means clearing the concept of negative integers again. And the operation means, for example, if I'm not taking trial and error also in this case in this question.
Radha Sharma: So when we are subtracting anything, it is decreasing, we have to give them the concept that when we are going away from 0 in the left hand side, then it is always a value which is lesser.
Radha Sharma: So if I'm subtracting again, the value will be means, the number will decrease, and if number is decreasing in negative points is value will increase.
Radha Sharma: so it will come towards the absolute. It will come nearer to 0. Same with the division. If we are dividing it again, the value, the number is decreasing, and the value will come closer to 0. Even in addition, also, addition is already coming to 0, coming nearer to 0. So only in multiplication as it is a repeated addition. So again and again, when we are taking negative numbers, so it is going away from 0. So that will be the lesser value than the given value.
Radha Sharma: So I think that concept map may help.
Sowmya A: Yeah. So I think, thank you all for your inputs. What I'm hearing. And if I just summarize, and I feel it might be true also that the context becomes important. Some students might be more comfortable with some concepts. So, for example, so far they've been doing
Sowmya A: whole number, multiplication, whole number division right, and then suddenly to move to negative numbers and then negative number, multiplication division. Although the logic might be pretty easy to understand, or the algorithm might be very simple, but context has not been built enough. And there are very few real life examples that you can give, because
Sowmya A: I think just going back to my point. We probably invented negative numbers because we saw some limitations with positive numbers, and otherwise we could have just worked with positive numbers throughout. I mean, if you look at the number system.
Sowmya A: we could have just made our reference point instead of 0, we could have made it minus infinity or minus some value. So then everything would have been positive. So for every negative number there can be an equivalent positive number which might actually suit our purpose, but we possibly created negative numbers just like we did fractions where we found that since our usual way of measurement
Sowmya A: already assumes moving from 0 to positive numbers or tangible things. Negative concept was not given a lot of importance, but it was required for us to do math.
Sowmya A: So that's why you real life. Examples of negative
Sowmya A: values might not be as frequent in their daily lives
Sowmya A: as say positive things, and that might be one of the reasons why why students might struggle when they encounter negative things.
Sowmya A: So for negative numbers, it might actually be useful to develop some algorithms and say, when you are working with negative numbers. You can switch to some algorithm, not because
Sowmya A: that, they can't use pure logic or pure understanding, but maybe because their mind is not conditioned enough with examples that they are readily able to use negative numbers as quickly as possible. So just going back to what Madura was saying or what Rouhani was saying is maybe for negative numbers. We can look at absolute values.
Sowmya A: do the division and then apply the sign?
Sowmya A: Then they might be able to recognize the value very quickly rather than trying to think of that. A negative number divided by
Sowmya A: another number, positive number actually increases its value.
Sowmya A: Because what if it's an improper fraction? And what if it's a proper fraction? What happens in that case? So there will be multiple scenarios that may come up. And just to avoid that, maybe we can think of this concept of
Sowmya A: taking the absolute values.
Sowmya A: performing the division or multiplication and then applying the sign to it that might also give them some sense of no satisfaction, that it is not different from natural number, multiplication, or division.
Ranjith P C: So can just a point here. What point we are driving here is, for example, in my, when I was a student, I remember the way my teacher taught. I think most of the case. Most of us here would have learned like that if it is 3 minus 5. My teacher taught me very simple. You subtract a smaller number from the bigger number and put the sign of the bigger number. That is simply a logic. That is not the concept
Ranjith P C: absolutely, absolutely out of the concept. It's not at all a concept. It is wholly to help the child.
Ranjith P C: and especially the all the learners starting from the top learners to the bottom learners. I mean the slow learners that logic will work.
Ranjith P C: Okay, that logic will work. But when the child has to learn the concept. It has to be taught in the very primary level concept. You have 3 chocolates. You need to take away 5 chocolates, which is not possible. Then what you do. That is where the idea of counters or your buttons come into picture, and from there you scaffold them and move on, and that's where the idea of lack will come
Ranjith P C: which we already discussed. The deficit. We don't have it. We don't have. We have lack of 2 more chocolate. So the lack of 2 more chocolate is going to give you that minus 2. The sense of bringing minus 2 is coming from the lack the word lack, or you take away, you remove. You don't have it. You do those things. So that is that idea of, you know, taking away or remove
Ranjith P C: the basic subtraction concept that is actually the conceptual approach which is used, I mean, which we scaffolded through the buttons or the number line. As the child progress in their, you know, year of learning.
Ranjith P C: Okay, so. But what we are trying to tell right now is absolute value. Take the absolute value and put the sign later on is a kind of you know, supporting the child, and you know, so that they don't make errors in the examination.
Ranjith P C: But we are not actually helping the child in
Ranjith P C: getting the concept as as such. So the point which you initially they are in your 1st slide itself shows that you know the idea that the buttons which you've showed and the idea which you've shown, the lack and deficit ideas that is, slowly. I would say, it's a stepping stone for the child to learn, you know.
Ranjith P C: towards the concept learning, and we should definitely bring in the idea of, you know, the primary concept itself, because you don't jump into addition. Sorry multiplication and division in indiger. 1st you start from, you know, 1st indiger, what is integer? Then you move on to ordering and representation of integer. Okay, then you move on to ordering and comparison of integers. Okay, that is where.
Ranjith P C: in one of your option is in the question which you shown Delta into 2. The child particularly. Most of them, will not pick it up. I am, I am assuming why they are not picking that up, because for them
Ranjith P C: multiply with the number, it would increase the number, so they don't understand that Delta is in the negative side. If you multiply it by 2, it is again a repeated addition which move further away from Delta, and as you move away from Delta, or as you move away from 0 in the negative direction, the value reduces that comparison part is also lacking in the child.
Ranjith P C: So point the bottom line. The summary which I I understand. I I would like to tell everyone in this room
Ranjith P C: so is that you know absolute value concept is to help the children. That's not the concept concept has to be taught the way it is being taught in the primary class for subtraction, multiplication, and all. Then they have to move on with that thing. That's what my view into that thing it is. It is good to go with definitely the absolute value, so that they don't make errors, and they become confident.
Ranjith P C: They become confident, because they do 10 problems in the classroom. They they go with that sense, they will, they will definitely be confident, then the teacher can slowly introduce this one, but you know it will no go. It will not go hand in hand. That is a problem.
Sowmya A: Any other. Anyone else wants to share anything.
Sowmya A: Thank you for that, Randy.
Sowmya A: Okay, so let's just look at some stats around
Sowmya A: what happened and how students fared on this one.
Sowmya A: So yeah, about 41%. Again, we see that 40.
Ranjith P C: Can you share your screen? Sorry. Sorry. Can you share your screen?
Sowmya A: Oh, my notes here.
Sowmya A: okay, yeah, can you? All of you see my screen?
Sowmya A: Yeah.
Sowmya A: So basically, it says, 41% again, around that 40% mark we see who got it right and most common wrong answer was a
Sowmya A: so again followed by very surprisingly, she was the last choice. So.
Sowmya A: although we had that keyword, less students seem to have, either they have seemed understood it, or there might be another error which is there in their misconception in their minds, which for which
Sowmya A: they did not choose. C. Although it would seem that if
Sowmya A: a misconception of negative number division is there, this should have been the dominant choice or the dominant wrong answer. It's not the case
Sowmya A: so he might have to think of what what other points might have been there in their minds of the child, so that they did not choose C as one of their options, and
Sowmya A: a seems to be very dominant. So I think what it shows is the concept of addition subtraction, because they do so much of it has a dominance in their minds, even when they're looking at an answer. And that misconception probably plays a stronger role than the concept of division, which I think they're still not very confident about. So that's why the most common wrong answer turns out to be A instead of C.
Sowmya A: Any thoughts.
krithika S: Sorry to interrupt. I think so. Even they have seen this word less than they normally use it this word in subtraction, so subtracting 2 numbers, they use this less than so that is also a case where they choose. This.
Sowmya A: Yeah. So just on that point, although division also, they understand as being less as being reducing something. But is it that a was the 1st option. Hence they picked that, and if C. Had been the 1st option they would have picked C.
Sowmya A: I don't know. Go.
Ranjith P C: Even 2 minus delta anywhere in this particular option, I would say that they will choose 2 minus delta, first, st because.
latha sriram: I do agree with him. This correct, they.
latha sriram: whatever you keep, they will not consider C. Option. That's very rare.
Ranjith P C: Yeah, see, option is very secondary thing. I mean it is, it is making. But, as you said, addition, subtraction is so rigid in the child's mind know that operation. They do. A lot of operations, regard and multiplication and division come later, correct. So this less. And the word problem kind of the kind of word problem they do much more, much less. All these things know that will play a major role, and the child will automatically pick up that
Ranjith P C: wherever you keep they'll choose that.
Madhura shetty: They would have thought it as 2 less than Delta also.
Sowmya A: Yeah, yeah, I think makes sense makes sense
Sowmya A: good. Any other thought from anyone.
Sowmya A: So I think, how can this be addressed? What? Any like very key points.
Sowmya A: Maybe just 1 point on what might be the most important thing if you have to address this kind of a misconception among students.
Ranjith P C: See, 1st thing is, the child should know the number line, what? Where the numbers are placed, and what is the, you know value of that number which represents on the negative side or positive side. What does it actually means?
Ranjith P C: Okay, that sense has to be there. That means whether you call it direction, whether you call it the absolute value, the value, the number line sense of bringing the number line itself is very important towards the left of 0. What's happening to the number towards the right of 0? What's happening to the number? What you? What will happen if you do? Certain operation? Those ideas should be there before that itself.
Ranjith P C: This number line.
Ranjith P C: you know, before you introduce the number line, the idea of, you know, integer, integer, addition, subtraction. All those operations have to be introduced through the way we pulled the counters and buttons and things like that, because they should get some sense of it, because number line, when you move into a number line, become bit abstract for the child, because the child may not entertain. Everybody may not entertain that thing. Okay, though, though they will be able to understand
Ranjith P C: simple addition and subtraction. But the way you scaffold them from the buttons concept to this thing that plays a major role and placing the number and what the value represent towards the left and right of the number line. That also plays a major that has to be introduced to the child introduced to the child in a way you know, much, much concrete manner, so that
Ranjith P C: the child will at least take, I mean, take off from there, and they don't make much mistake in the.
Sowmya A: Yeah, precisely.
Radha Sharma: Sure. Thank you.
Sowmya A: Yeah. Go. Ahead. Sorry.
Radha Sharma: Sir, I want to ask one question.
Radha Sharma: Actually, when we were talking about trial and error method, and when we were talking about that, we can take any negative value. Learner can take any negative value in place of Delta, and then they can try. So why, you were talking about minus one and minus 4. How is how it will make difference? It will be same, I think.
Sowmya A: It won't. Yeah, yeah, it won't. I'm just saying in their minds when they say Take something which is magnitude wise, greater than 2. So you're dividing by 2, right? So supposing their example that they took was minus one.
Sowmya A: so it becomes minor.
Radha Sharma: Any negative number, any negative number. If they are taking, so it will always be means they will get the result properly.
Sowmya A: Correct. Correct. What I'm saying is in their mind.
Sowmya A: 4 by 2, if you take right, 4 by 2 is greater than one, whereas one by 2. Magnitude wise is lesser than one, so do they have the understanding of minus 4 by 2, and minus one by 2. So what is the meaning of a negative number in case of fractions?
Sowmya A: Do they have that understanding or not? Or do they get confused with that logic also integers versus fractions in negative numbers? Do they have that understanding? Is what I wanted to highlight.
Radha Sharma: Thank you, sir.
Chitra Mohan: Okay, so I have a doubt.
Chitra Mohan: sir. I have a doubt, sir.
Sowmya A: Yeah, go ahead. Go ahead.
Chitra Mohan: Hello, sir!
Sowmya A: Can you hear?
Chitra Mohan: Randy, Sir said, write that number line, but rather than number line it is with, the reference is better. Why? Because when I go for a vertical number line.
Chitra Mohan: The chain may interpret it differently. You have given an horizontal number line when I teach them with the reference or something, then, when I draw the number line in any direction, there is no rule that it has to be that gives a lead to even the graph where they have the x-axis and y-axis. When both vertical and horizontal are taught, it is not only to the left and right, it is to the up and down also
Chitra Mohan: when they have that sense. No, that will be even more better in understanding this, and it'll be much easier when you go to higher classes to introduce X access, and via access.
Ranjith P C: That's the point here, all with reference to 0 towards the left and right, what's happening to the number? So that's what we no matter you put it in vertical or horizontal. How.
Chitra Mohan: No, sir, it changes few children, they take it as left and right. I have tested it when I give a vertical.
Ranjith P C: Hi!
Ranjith P C: No, no, yeah. I I understood totally. I got.
Chitra Mohan: Where are you coming from? Yes.
Ranjith P C: Towards the towards the top, and towards the bottom.
Chitra Mohan: We are.
Ranjith P C: So we we take the sea level sea level towards the To, you know, in depth.
Chitra Mohan: They even speak about C. 11, and it is not when it comes to graph. No, they get so confused.
Chitra Mohan: What and what number? If the number line is just here properly either vertical or horizontal, flip it up.
Chitra Mohan: it aids them in like it helps them a lot in introducing.
Ranjith P C: So that is, that is where the scaffolding is required. So initial point, which even Sokin also mentioned about that. You know the all these examples, you know, which you take it up. You know you also mentioned in the reference. I remember saying that you know on the sea level submarine all those concepts you brought in. Correct, you know, submarine. With respect to submarine below the submarine, it is going to be a negative, and above it is positive.
Chitra Mohan: Put the level to C level.
Ranjith P C: Yeah, with the level to sea level, correct with the level to sea level. So with respect to sea level, so that that sense has to be into, I mean introduced first, st then, only the number line will make sense to the children. So with respect
Ranjith P C: good to see you.
Suchita Kadambi: I want to give an easier example, sir, when you go in the lift ground floor is a.
Ranjith P C: Oh!
Suchita Kadambi: Okay, whenever you want to go to the higher flows, they're all positive numbers in the list. When you want.
Ranjith P C: Correct.
Suchita Kadambi: It is minus one, so that.
Ranjith P C: Absolutely, is.
Suchita Kadambi: Because.
Ranjith P C: Absolutely absolutely, because children travel these days across, you know, into the malls and all when they go into the basement parking. With respect to the ground level ground level. If you are ground floor, you take it as 0 or ground level is your reference point. As Chitra, ma'am said. Below that you go into the basement. It is going to be negative and move up. It's positive all these things are initial.
Ranjith P C: When you introduce the concept of indigenous. You use all this scaffolding techniques, basically, or the examples you use it to bring the sense of
Ranjith P C: moving away from the you know. Reference point up and down. What's happening to the numbers.
Sowmya A: Yeah.
Chitra Mohan: Hello, sir!
Chitra Mohan: I have one more doubt. That was my doubt when it comes to horizontal. If the same question is given in horizontal, how will the answers differ.
Sowmya A: Yeah, yeah, just 1 point on that. What I want to mention is this is something I mentioned in my 1st session as well, that context is really important for children. So logically, both are the same, absolutely no issues. But.
Chitra Mohan: They don't think in that way that way.
Sowmya A: Yeah, that's what I'm trying to come to. What I'm trying to say is that if you start with some context that most children have familiarity with. For example, if when you go along on your daily life rarely, you will see things flying up in the air or going into the crowd, but you will see things moving left and right, cars, moving trains, moving, cycles moving.
Chitra Mohan: Why I have asked you is, whenever I asked about the vertical distance, the children end up doing it wrong, similar to this question, since it is horizontal, you're given. When it comes to vertical distance, they end up in subtracting and giving a lower one. And actually they don't understand the exact meaning of vertical distance.
Sowmya A: Yeah. So that's what I'm trying to come to. What I'm saying is, maybe we use horizontal number line, because that is what we see most commonly in our daily lives, left and right, rather than moving up and down, so it might be a good starting point to introduce these numbers, line or integer concept, because they already are familiar with it. You may have to give them some guidance, and then they will use their own intuition and then pick it up from there
Sowmya A: from their daily experiences that they have. Whereas if you give an example of something going up and down, which is rarely they will watch a rocket going up, or something like that. They may be.
Chitra Mohan: It goes up and down, sir.
Sowmya A: Very good.
Chitra Mohan: An elevator goes up and down.
Sowmya A: Very true, very true, elevator does, but how much do they see of an elevator in a day, rather than watching a cycle or a person moving left and right on a road or things. So if you look at the relative probability, it might be that left and right is maybe more probable than.
Chitra Mohan: More probable than the up and down.
Sowmya A: But but.
Chitra Mohan: Sky campus lift is also more. These days. It has become more apparent in every building.
Sowmya A: Correct. So that's why the probably the next obvious example for up and down is the elevator. Because that's the next most common thing children view, rather than saying that if I take a space shuttle to Mars, or come back, or something.
Chitra Mohan: Yes, or when I say mine shaft, they ask me, what is a mine shaft, ma'am?
Sowmya A: Yeah, so.
Suchita Kadambi: Ma'am, I would also like to add that we also introduce them to some words like we say, profit is positive, loss is negative. So all those keywords we give them. Okay, increase in temperature is positive. Decrease in temperature is negative. So all those keywords we initially teach them, and we introduce them to intelligence.
Sowmya A: I think this was good. I think it's a good discussion, and I think it's a discussion that requires more thought as well. And it's probably an ongoing discussion. There will always be better ways of doing things. But I think the key key summary would be if we use concepts that students are familiar with. I think it might be an easier task to help them, and logically, all the examples mentioned by everyone are valid. But I think. Let's just be conscious of
Sowmya A: what might students be more familiar with and work on towards building concepts on top of those, then it might be an easier journey for them. One example that I have is from because we are on this topic
Sowmya A: is from the list of resources that are shared. Some of you might have already gone through this document, which is quite a nice document. Here. It introduces the concept of integer multiplication, using a grid. I think some of you might already be using it, but I felt it might be nice to just show it to the, to the panel over here, in case some of you get ideas. So they start from the number line, and this has both
Sowmya A: horizontal number line and vertical number line, and then you are multiplying numbers. And you see, as we go from left to right, how the numbers keep changing and they decrease. So even the product keeps changing, based on that. So every element in this is the product of the corresponding row value and the column value.
Sowmya A: And when students keep populating this, they also get not only an idea about number line, but also of quadrants in. And then it's an introduction into coordinate geometry. So I felt that this is a really nice exercise that students might do in for them to understand how multiplication signs work with integers.
Sowmya A: And this is in the resources folder. I've provided a link to this in the excel, and you can readily access this from there. It's a quite good reading and quite worth.
Sowmya A: So yeah, so this was one example that I just wanted to share which you can use in your classes.
Sowmya A: Let's let's just go back, and you can read through this document in your at your own pace as well.
Sowmya A: So I'm just conscious of the time as well. Let's just look at what we've done so far.
Sowmya A: Yeah. So I think we all understood that number line is probably key for students to understand integer operations that includes subtraction, multiplication, division, and addition.
Sowmya A: and having a good grounding of that might help them. Now.
Sowmya A: I want to introduce one more concept or one more approach of looking at this. And then. And this is the vector, approach. I'm not. Some of you may be familiar with it. Some of you may not be. Which again, the benefit of that is, we've been talking directions a lot when we were looking at negative numbers. So
Sowmya A: the obvious sort of outcome of that, is it vectors and an understanding of vectors. And in the case of vectors we may view these slightly differently, and then I will leave it up to you to decide which approach works best for you. But it's just a concept. And then for you to look at and think about.
Sowmya A: So when, before we start that I'll just come back to my 1st slide.
Sowmya A: So in this slide, supposing, I say, that the temporary, the temperature is 20 degrees centigrade.
Sowmya A: Right? So all of you would say, Okay, that means it. With respect to 0, if the temperature is 20 degrees Centi.
Sowmya A: Now, if I say the change in temperature is 20 degrees centigrade.
Sowmya A: right? Both of them, when I write on a piece of paper, I'll write 20 degrees centigrade or 20 right? But they mean 2 different things. If I say that the change in temperature is 20 degrees centigrade. It could still be negative.
Sowmya A: right?
Sowmya A: Because I could have gone from 0 to minus 20. The change is still 20 degrees Centig
Sowmya A: right, or I could have gone from 0 to 20 right? But if I say my temperature is 20 degrees centigrade, it cannot mean 2 different things.
Sowmya A: So one is an indication of a state.
Sowmya A: whereas the other is an indicator of change.
Sowmya A: So these are 2 quite different things, yet we are denoting both of them with the same number.
Sowmya A: Am I making sense so far? Does does that make sense so far.
Ranjith P C: Yeah. And I think so. Can one just point 1 point here change with respect to what do we do you mention about that, or it is simply the change.
Sowmya A: Does so does change require a reference point.
Ranjith P C: That's a that's a whole point. Here.
Sowmya A: Yeah. So that's where we get into the I won't get into vectors, because that's a more advanced concept. But I'm just introducing this because it very seamlessly leads into this vector operations later, and where everything is in a vector in math and physics. But
Sowmya A: the same concepts are being used at the primary or the middle school level as well, and I just wanted to highlight that. So when we talk about change, it does not require a reference point.
Sowmya A: it can move about freely anywhere, whereas when I say a state like 20 degrees and a temperature is 20 degrees centigrade.
Sowmya A: it can. It can only mean that the temperature is 20 degrees, whereas if I say 20 degree centigrade change, the temperature could be negative. The change could be from 0 to minus 20, or the change could be 0 to plus 20 right? Just saying that the change is 20 degrees. Centigrade is not enough to tell you what the temperature is
Sowmya A: right.
Sowmya A: So now, based on that, what I can say is that when we look at addition
Sowmya A: integer addition, we can think of it as a particular state
Sowmya A: and adding a change to it.
Sowmya A: Okay, let's just look at some examples.
Sowmya A: So say, I have the number 3 over here. Okay? And I add minus 5 to it. Okay, so this is my number line.
Sowmya A: I start with 3.
Sowmya A: Okay? And what is my change? My change is minus 5. That means I have to go left from 3.
Sowmya A: So left from 3. If I go minus 5, I come to minus 2.
Sowmya A: So initial state, like my temperature is 0 degree centigrade, plus the change change of minus
Sowmya A: 5 degree centigrade will make it minus. So the initial state, plus the change will give me my final state
Sowmya A: right?
Sowmya A: So the change in itself cannot mean anything. It can only it. It cannot give you a
Sowmya A: a position that I am at right, but coupled with another state, I can tell it can become a position. Right? So in this case, 3 plus a negative change of 5 gives me negative 2.
Sowmya A: Okay, let's see if it works with any other scenario also. So I did 3 plus minus 5. What if I do?
Sowmya A: 5 mine plus or 5 plus minus 3.
Sowmya A: Supposing I do this?
Sowmya A: Okay? So now, what is my initial state file? This is what I started with.
Sowmya A: And to that I'm adding, what change? Because plus means adding a change.
Sowmya A: So what am I adding to it? Minus 3. So 5 plus minus 3 gives me. That means from 5 I have to go left because it's a negative change. So 5 plus minus 3 gives me
Sowmya A: 2.
Sowmya A: Okay, now, let's come back to say a more difficult scenario.
Sowmya A: right? Minus 5 minus minus 3.
Sowmya A: Okay?
Sowmya A: So plus is what plus is
Sowmya A: adding a change to an existing state. Right? So let me let me just take another scenario, so that we are very clear that it works in all possible scenarios. What about minus 5 plus minus 3?
Sowmya A: Right? Let's see if it works for that.
Sowmya A: So my initial state is minus 5
Sowmya A: right? Which is on this side.
Sowmya A: To that I'm adding a change. That means a negative change. That means I'm going further. Left.
Sowmya A: So minus 5 plus minus 3 gives me minus 8. So that gives me another state.
Sowmya A: Okay, now let's see if it were what happens with negative note.
Sowmya A: So if adding is giving you a state right, initial state plus change final state? Okay, what is subtraction?
Sowmya A: Subtraction is the change. Why? Because if I say that my temperature was 25 degrees
Sowmya A: now, and my temperature earlier was 20 degrees 25 minus 20 gives me change.
Sowmya A: Okay, so now, I might be redefining how we say, look at addition and subtraction.
Sowmya A: So sub addition is basically giving us a state.
Sowmya A: whereas subtraction is actually always giving us change.
Sowmya A: Okay, so what is the change? Right? So let's see if that works. So if I have 5
Sowmya A: and I have minus sorry, it would be minus 3.
Sowmya A: Very easy. But let's see if we can view it in terms of the definition that I was just saying
Sowmya A: so. I'm saying 5 is my initial state.
Sowmya A: and 3, 5 is my final state.
Sowmya A: and 3 was my initial state. So 5. How do I go? From 3 to 5, from my initial state to my final state. I go. I have to go to the right. So that's why it's plus 2
Sowmya A: right. And that is what that is the change. It is not the state, it's the change. So subtraction is always change. How much did it change by
Sowmya A: right? Now? Supposing let me take another example, does it work for negative? No, if I take minus 5,
Sowmya A: minus 3, right? So what was my initial state? 3.
Sowmya A: And from 3 I went to minus 5.
Sowmya A: So how do I go? From 3 to minus 5?
Sowmya A: I have to go minus 8. So my change is minus 8, right?
Sowmya A: So it works for every scenario. What if I say minus 5, minus minus 3?
Sowmya A: Let's see if it works in this scenario.
Sowmya A: So my initial state is minus 3
Sowmya A: right, and then from minus 3, I have to go to minus 5.
Sowmya A: So I have to go to the left. That means I miss subtract. So my change is minus 2.
Sowmya A: So do you see that it is independent of having to interpret signs? I don't have to think about minus into minus is plus plus into minus is minus. Whether minus comes before minus comes after. It's just always consistent, because
Sowmya A: subtraction measures change. That's it. Nothing else.
Sowmya A: Subtraction always measures change.
Sowmya A: So it works with every possible scenario.
Sowmya A: right? And then we can keep changing the values over here. But we can all. It's the definition is always consistent. There are no exceptions, you can always get the right answer. With this approach
Sowmya A: the only thing is the definition, addition
Sowmya A: is state going from one state plus. The change gives you the final state.
Sowmya A: Subtraction gives you the change, only the change
Sowmya A: right? And using this, you may well ask like difficult questions like, How do I explain? Minus of minus 3 know a number before that? How do I just explain, minus of minus 3? Let's just see.
Sowmya A: So when I say, minus of minus 3 default is 0, right?
Sowmya A: So my final state is 0, and I start with minus 3. So how do I go from minus 3 to 0.
Sowmya A: I add 3.
Sowmya A: So minus of minus 3 is plus 3, which is again change.
Sowmya A: Okay?
Sowmya A: Again, I know this might be different from what you might be familiar with. It's just a perspective, a thought and it's built on this concept of direction that some of you are using in your in your explanation. So what I'm saying is, there is merit in using direction as well. But
Sowmya A: as long as we are able to build context, I think we should be fine, because I know, having taught senior students. Also, I know for a fact that context is really important. So if a student is understanding numbers, using accounting logic like profit and loss. He likes numbers in terms of finance.
Sowmya A: profit, and loss concepts. Then, maybe with directions, he might, he or she might have difficulty interpreting. So it's always good to have a nice balance, and also showing that one. These concepts are interchangeable. So the same concept in direction can be moved to finance or vice versa. But we need to be careful that we set the ground in a way that we don't say that
Sowmya A: in this scenario. It's an exception. Just remember it this way.
Sowmya A: Okay, for everything else. It works.
Sowmya A: then, that creates doubts in students. Mind. So whatever concept you do end up using. Make sure that the examples that you give can be scalable, and they can be moved into other areas also without having to modify the way that they think or modify the the logic that they've built over a period of time.
Sowmya A: Okay.
Ranjith P C: So we we use this. We use this idea in our schools. But we don't. We don't mention it, as you know, the with the way you mentioned, not the green green color, I mean the changes green. Item 3. Correct, the moving towards the 0. Correct. We we may, we denoted as jump actually in the this way.
Radha Sharma: Yes, we are using.
Ranjith P C: Yeah, yeah, it's the same same concept, but only not putting the direction direction is there, but always we put it as a jump from this way or this way, whether moving.
Radha Sharma: Even in our school also, we are using this number line concept for addition and subtraction. But again, we are not using this word change. And we have not explained that what is a change means addition in subtraction and subtraction context.
Radha Sharma: We are only taking. It means, if we are adding a positive number you can see on a number line for adding a positive number. We will always go to a right. Go to right hand side, right? We are moving towards the right hand side. But if we are adding a negative number, we have to go to our left hand side.
Radha Sharma: So addition.
Radha Sharma: So that is, the method is given means even we are using a curriculum in which these methods are given. So we are using that number line, adding in subtraction, using number line.
Sowmya A: So just on that. Rather, how would you explain this particular scenarios? I'm just curious to understand. Supposing, I say 0 minus minus 3. How would you explain this?
Sowmya A: This confusion? Here.
Radha Sharma: Okay. So what I was telling right now was addition. If we are adding, we are going towards the for adding a positive number, we are going towards the right hand side, and for adding a negative number, we are going towards the left hand side. Same. It is opposite with the subtraction context. So if I am subtracting a positive number, I have to go towards the left hand side.
Radha Sharma: So.
Sowmya A: And how do you explain? Minus of minus? 3 as being positive? How do you explain that.
Radha Sharma: From 0 0 is also in also an integer, so it is subtraction from subtracted from int the 0. So, and when we are subtracting a negative number. We are going towards right hand side. So from 0 we will go 3 more.
Radha Sharma: So it will be positive. 3 means we have to take 3 moves from minus 3. I say.
Sowmya A: But then isn't negative associated with left hand side. Just I think you just said that right, that students think that students know that negative minus means going to negative side. But then, how do you explain negative of a negative
Sowmya A: actually becomes possible? How do you conceptually explain that? That's what I'm curious to understand.
Radha Sharma: These, both the things are different. It is not negative of negative, it is subtraction of a negative integer from 0.
Sowmya A: Hmm, so so then how does that become positive?
latha sriram: Sir, can I say something if you don't mind.
Sowmya A: I can just wait for rather to complete.
Sowmya A: Okay, sir.
Radha Sharma: Okay? So from 0, when we are going towards, see, when we are subtracting a negative integer
Radha Sharma: just a minute. What?
Radha Sharma: Let's see.
Sowmya A: Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Fine.
Radha Sharma: Okay. Just just come. Give me one.
Sowmya A: Yeah, you can come back. Yeah, no worries, no worries. Yeah. Sorry.
latha sriram: I just wanted to answer for that only. Actually, it is traction the moment we say minus minus means towards the left. Now, once there is a minus. I have to move towards the left, but again, the number is also having a minus, so I am forced to move towards the right. That is how we explain with number line.
latha sriram: We say that there is a subtraction. I, whenever I see negative sign whether it is symbol or the operation. 1st move towards the left, then another. One time there is on minus. That means again, you have to come towards the right side. That is how we explain with the number line same.
Sowmya A: So basically, so basically, you are explaining that when 2 negative signs are with each other it's going negative. But then negative of a negative becomes the opposite direction, so then it becomes.
latha sriram: Yeah, without introducing integer multiplication being in 6 standard, we can't introduce. So we do like this. First, st you see the subtraction sign children move towards the left, but then again, the number is also having a minus sign. Then I have to move towards the right.
Sowmya A: Yeah, I think that seems reasonable for students to understand.
Sowmya A: Okay, any other thoughts from anyone.
Sowmya A: Okay, let's just go back.
Sowmya A: And let's do one more question. Maybe we need different breakout rooms for that as well.
Sowmya A: Yeah, in the interest of time.
Sowmya A: Where's that?
Sowmya A: Shall we look at?
Sowmya A: Yeah. So can we all go back to our breakout rooms and look at this particular question, which is there? I'll I'll start pasting it on the
Sowmya A: docs as well. How do I move all of you back to the breakout room.
Sowmya A: Open all rooms. Okay?
Sowmya A: Yeah. So the rooms are open. You can all go back. I think we have about 5 min, you can take about 5 min or 7 min
Sowmya A: to discuss this particular scenario. I'll paste it in the Google docs as well, so that each of you can see and do that for that. I'll have to minimize this sorry.
RANJINI GOPALAKRISHNAN: Mr. Sulking.
RANJINI GOPALAKRISHNAN: Good evening, sir. I joined a little late, so you just breakout room for me.
Sowmya A: Yes.
RANJINI GOPALAKRISHNAN: With Chitra and Lata, who are from my spot.
Sowmya A: Yeah, I think we have assigned
Sowmya A: you to the rules, did you not?
Sowmya A: Are you not able to join.
RANJINI GOPALAKRISHNAN: No, actually, I don't know which breakout room to go to.
Sowmya A: Oh, I'll just tell you that Shitran Latar.
Sowmya A: Oh.
Chitra Mohan: I didn't get any breakout room.
Sowmya A: Sorry.
Chitra Mohan: I didn't get any breakout.
Sowmya A: You should be able to. If you click on the bottom of your screen, there is this more button.
Sowmya A: Yeah, you can just move to the breakout room.
Sowmya A: You are in Breakout Room 5.
RANJINI GOPALAKRISHNAN: I can't see the option.
Sowmya A: Okay, let me just do it pretty cool.
Sowmya A: Let me move you to directly you will be able to direct. I'll move you directly to the.
RANJINI GOPALAKRISHNAN: Yeah, you can move me directly. That's true.
Sowmya A: Do we
Sowmya A: assign to breakout from 5? Yes, I've done that, Chithra. Let me just assign you one of them.
Sowmya A: See? Okay.
RANJINI GOPALAKRISHNAN: This is, Samya is inviting me to.
RANJINI GOPALAKRISHNAN: Okay, I'll join Room 5.
Sowmya A: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah.
Sowmya A: Chitra, your informed one, unless I need to know about it.
Sowmya A: And
Sowmya A: so your time.
Sowmya A: yeah, yeah. But.
Sowmya A: Remember.
Sowmya A: so we can take another minute, or then we can come back to the main session.
Sowmya A: Thank you.
latha sriram: Sir. We just finished the discussion, so we came back, sir.
Sowmya A: No worries. That's fine. That's fine. Yeah, we will. I'll close the rooms in another minute.
latha sriram: Okay, sir.
Sowmya A: For 30 seconds. I think.
latha sriram: Okay, sir. Thank you.
Sowmya A: Thank you.
Aarthy B: But I was just thinking in this question.
Aarthy B: shouldn't we be adding a condition that P. And T. Can't be or can't be, 0.
Aarthy B: Because if you look at correct answer, option as B.
Sowmya A: Hmm.
Aarthy B: When you say either P is 0, TP. Is less than 0, or T is less than 0.
Sowmya A: Yeah.
Aarthy B: What if the other one is 0?
Sowmya A: No. Can either one of them be 0, because the value has to be less than 0?
Sowmya A: Can any of them give you.
Aarthy B: No, if P is less than 0, or T is less than 0.
Sowmya A: Yeah.
Aarthy B: In this condition, if you choose this.
Aarthy B: this is the correct option, right according to the current scenario.
Aarthy B: But when a child is testing, when P is less than 0
Aarthy B: and assume that condition is satisfied.
Aarthy B: And what if T is 0, then.
Sowmya A: I'm busy right now.
Aarthy B: That is not given. No.
Sowmya A: No, no, T can't be 0, because the value will never be less than 0. Then right? The 5 right hand side is less than 0,
Sowmya A: so neither of them can be 0, because then, if any one of them is 0, the answer will be 0. It cannot be less than 0.
Aarthy B: But generically, when we permit, it is not better if it is stated in the beginning. Only the p and T are not 0.
Sowmya A: So these are the.
Aarthy B: Questions.
latha sriram: Because you have just given us integers, sir, as a student I will think that 0 is also an integer, as she rightly asked, why should I not consider
latha sriram: the good.
Sowmya A: Yes.
latha sriram: Mentioning, no.
Sowmya A: Yeah, because the inequality says less than 0. It does not say less than equal to 0.
Sowmya A: That's why. So the expectation is that students understand they may come up with that scenario, but they will dismiss it by this knowledge, that if I multiply any number with any number, and if one of them is 0. The answer can only be 0. It cannot be less than 0.
Aarthy B: No, sometimes, if you see in competency questions nowadays, sometimes even these delimiter cases, boundary cases are also considered. No, so you might get one more option as ee.
Aarthy B: For no value of p and T. It might satisfy for non-zero value of p and T. Satisfying this, it can be 0. It also depends on how the options are framed as well. Right.
Sowmya A: That's true, that's true, but in this case it is. I think it's pretty clear. There's no information missing in this.
Aarthy B: But I feel it is. If you add that condition, it will make it more clearer.
Aarthy B: because, as such, if I take P is 0 P. Is less than 0.
Aarthy B: Let me take any value, if for anything, it should satisfy this. No, that is what we are looking at right.
Sowmya A: Yeah, yeah.
Aarthy B: If P is less than 0, I take P as minus one, I take T as 0.
Aarthy B: It is not satisfying, so B. Can't be my answer. A child might have tested with 0.
Sowmya A: Hmm!
Sowmya A: So then that's why it's not one of the choices. No, 0 is not one of the choices.
Aarthy B: Equal to 0 is not one of the choices. That is why I think, even if they think about it.
Aarthy B: No, if I say it.
Sowmya A: Yeah.
Aarthy B: No see if either p is less than 0 that is satisfied.
Sowmya A: Hmm.
Aarthy B: T equal to t is less than 0, greater than 0 or t equal to 0. All 3 are possible cases right.
Aarthy B: So when I take t second case, if I take either P is less than 0, or T is less than 0.
Sowmya A: Good.
Aarthy B: I satisfy the 1st part, the, or need not be satisfied. No.
Aarthy B: in either or.
Sowmya A: Yeah, when you say, or either this or this means it is independent of the other.
Sowmya A: So if I say P lesser than 0, then it does not.
Sowmya A: or T. Lesser than 0. That means any one of them is sufficient.
Sowmya A: Is that what you're saying? Correct.
Aarthy B: That is what I'm saying. Let's take this example. If P is less than 0, if I take P as minus one.
Aarthy B: Yeah, that condition is satisfied enough. But T is, the child has taken a 0. You'll get a negative. This one will essentially lead to 0, so it won't satisfy.
Sowmya A: Yeah, which is correct. And B is not the right answer. That's why.
Sowmya A: Okay, shall we all come back?
Sowmya A: This is a very interesting question. Actually.
Sowmya A: let's just quickly go through it. I mean, conscious of the time.
Sowmya A: Close all rooms, all quarters, eventually 60 seconds to come back there.
Sowmya A: Let's just hopefully. All of you can come back.
Sowmya A: Just take up 2, 2, 3 min to discuss this question.
Suchita Kadambi: Yes, sir, we have discussed that
Suchita Kadambi: breakout room one we assume that middle school children will apply the trial and error method only because.
Sowmya A: You know.
Suchita Kadambi: Have the knowledge of inequalities over here at this stage.
Sowmya A: Hmm, hmm.
Suchita Kadambi: So, and generally, what they think is minus into minus is plus. So they try to, you know. Apply that, and choose the option.
Sowmya A: yeah. So let's just quickly look at the stats also on this, as you can see that this particular question was offered in 2 successive
Sowmya A: paper terms like summer and winter.
Sowmya A: But the percentage of of incorrect answers, or even the right answers remain almost the same.
Sowmya A: So it seems to be that this particular scenario is unfortunately not being addressed when we are looking at, you know, by the conventional method by which integer concepts are being explained right? This might be. Obviously, this is a above average difficulty question. But then still the very low percentage of right answers into successive terms in which it was given
Sowmya A: seems to indicate that there must be a deep gap somewhere, right which students are not able to surmount. And hence this high percentage of incorrect answers in this case. So.
RANJINI GOPALAKRISHNAN: So.
Sowmya A: Boom.
Suchita Kadambi: Because I feel it is age appropriate answering.
Suchita Kadambi: A middle school child will get it wrong because the question is little bit of a higher level.
Sowmya A: Hmm.
Suchita Kadambi: See. At 6th and 7th they get introduced to basics. Then they learn operations. So you know, then they learn comparing of integers so suddenly, you know.
Suchita Kadambi: it will contradict to their thinking. I feel.
Sowmya A: Hmm.
Ranjith P C: Is the problem. So can we see in the primary, sorry middle school early because we don't teach the inequality that quickly. So what happens is if 2 negative numbers. So if they have, they 1st of all go with the negative into negative positive sense. So 1st of all, the sales. First, st confusion will be, why is this minus p into minus T itself is less than 0? Because I've been taught that, you know.
Ranjith P C: 2 negative integers. If you multiply, I get positive, why is it so? But apart from that, the major, Major Chunk will solve the problem by taking the example. Okay, if anybody has to introduce the idea of a 2 negative, 2 numbers are negative. So either of them is negative, basically. So in that case, minus p is less than 0 or minus or minus t is less than 0. If minus p is less than 0,
Ranjith P C: P will be positive. So that sense. You know that minus p. Less than 0 and moving to P. Greater than 0 from there, that slightly challenging for the child to understand. That's where I'm coming. I'm not sure in for which grade we have conduct. You have conducted this asset for.
Sowmya A: I think it's for 7, th it's yeah, definitely not 6. It's, I think, 7th or, yeah, yeah, it's probably 7.th Yeah.
Ranjith P C: Okay. Okay, that may be one reason you got mostly wrong. I think.
Suchita Kadambi: Or even in 7.th We don't introduce inequalities.
Sowmya A: Hmm.
Savita S M: No in trouble.
Sowmya A: Okay.
Savita S M: Class 7 they are not introduced to multiplication division in Class 6, so they are learning it for the 1st time.
Sowmya A: Sure.
Savita S M: Of the question. The comprehension itself will take some time, be repeated.
Savita S M: reinforce it, say, by grade 8. They might be able to practice their comprehension, I think, becomes an issue, and it is too long. They will just give up. Some of them will just give up reading the question after the 1st line.
Sowmya A: Alright!
Suchita Kadambi: But in the middle school level it will contribute, contradict to what they have learned as they have learned minus into minus is positive. Then why is it here less than 0? That is the contradiction they get in their mind.
krithika S: And they will not apply that P. And Q are 2 integers immediately. Their mind will not go, for that P can be a negative integer also, or T can be a negative integer
krithika S: immediately, the child not thinking that way. It will take 8th or 9.th When they come to that age they can able to associate with this.
Sowmya A: Hmm.
Sowmya A: yeah, I think it would have been the same question for 7th and 8 together. So even 8 standard students would be figuring in this distribution that that is there.
Sowmya A: Because some sometimes for difficulty levels, some questions might be shared across 7th and 8 standards. So even that standards are would have written the same question.
latha sriram: The sorry to interfere. Are you sharing your screen? That.
Sowmya A: Yeah. Can you not see?
latha sriram: I don't know. I'm not able to see.
Sowmya A: No, no, I think what happens is, maybe every time I go into breakout room I think my screen sharing goes away.
Suchita Kadambi: Sir, are we having any assignment today.
Sowmya A: Yeah, the assignment I will post on the Google drive, and then we send you the link, so that I will send you the link to the document. So it will be like a few questions on similar to this on integers which you can basically what you would what we would like you to do is explain some approaches that you would feel might help solve the kind of gaps.
Ranjith P C: And so again, sorry can you make in big screen, full screen.
Sowmya A: Okay, so it's.
Ranjith P C: Yeah, thank, you.
Sowmya A: So the assignments
Sowmya A: that we will be giving basically will be based on questions like these. And the objective is to see how many? What are the different approaches that we can employ to answer these questions, or teach students to answer such questions? And what might be the stumbling blocks for students. Where might a student youth, in your opinion, where might a student go wrong in answering a question like this?
Sowmya A: So and then your responses have to be in that word, Doc, that I had shared earlier, and I will be sending across all the details of the links and what you need to do in that document?
Sowmya A: Does does that answer your question?
Savita S M: I just have another observation regarding integer, the conceptions, conceptions which get carried over to higher classes, especially when it comes to correlation.
Savita S M: Physics.
Suchita Kadambi: Absolutely. Yeah.
Savita S M: For example, when we talk about velocity and speed, I think someone mentioned.
Savita S M: yes, we never talk about negative distances, but we do talk about negative velocities. So a simple question, which is faster, minus 15 meters per second, or minus or plus 5 meters per second.
Sowmya A: Okay.
Savita S M: Most of them say plus 5, because minus 15 is a negative number, and a negative number minus 15 is less than 5.
Savita S M: Majority of the students have this because it is so by the time they come to speed velocity. This concept is so ingrained that negative numbers are lesser than positive that they cannot imagine a scenario where minus 15 can be greater than plus 5.
Savita S M: So this is one misconception which I come across even later when they do optics.
Savita S M: time conventions. The same issue happens when we are dealing with magnification.
Sowmya A: Absolutely, absolutely, absolutely.
Savita S M: Because minus 3 is less than whatever. So how do we tackle conception?
Savita S M: This is ingrained. Right? 6, 7, 8, all reinforced integer concept.
Sowmya A: Yes, yes, and that is why I think really good point, really amazing point made by you. And that is why I was. I keep stressing that we have to pick our examples very, very carefully. It might work in the short term. But will it work in the long term? And because the same students who who might be really happy that they are able to solve most of the questions in the paper because of the way you might have taught them
Sowmya A: might again develop a different thinking at when he go, when he or she goes into higher standards, saying, Why is this? Why did
Sowmya A: this this not working for me? It works so nicely when I was in lower standards. Why is there a new paradigm right now? So it's very important to pick your examples.
Sowmya A: such that you have an insight into. What will this lead to later for them? What will this be? A segue into for concept wise
Sowmya A: when they when they are going into higher standards. So I think collectively, we have a very much higher responsibility than maybe high school teachers right to to generate, to put in those seeds that when you, you know, nurture them, they will grow in the right direction. So it's very important what context and what examples we take are the examples, such that they're limiting
Sowmya A: the expansion of their thinking, then it's not enough. Right? So examples should be such that they might not explain everything, but they still open the possibility for it. Saying this, you may learn later, but whatever I'm saying now will not be contradicted at any point of time. What I'm saying is true, but you may learn more about it as you go on.
Sowmya A: So that example picking of examples. And that's why I mentioned that, should we look at an elevator example? Should we look at a car example? Should we look at an accounting example if we give them context. When we are teaching these things, maybe they'll understand it better, saying, this works better in an accounting scenario, but it can be used, and that's where perhaps we have to strive a little bit more to show
Sowmya A: an accounting example can be picked, as is into a vectors example or an optics example, as you mentioned, where magnitude becomes more important than the sign so, and that's, for example, with direction.
Sowmya A: negative direction is just another another movement, whereas if you look at deficit, it's the lack of something. So conceptually. There are 2 different things. Lack of something is not the same as moving in the opposite direction in the same way as you would in the positive direction. So there are 2 very different concepts that need to be probably understood, and context should be built around these examples, at least for integers. I believe.
Savita S M: Yes, the direct, the concept of directed numbers.
Savita S M: So we have to use that all the time that the direction also matters sometimes.
Sowmya A: Yeah. And I, I think, fortunately and unfortunately, as we go into higher standards, most of the examples are to do with direction.
Sowmya A: So integers take a very different form. It's always vectors. Everything is vectors. So students lose sight unless they're taking up a subject like economics or commerce or finance, they lose. Subsequently they lose touch with integers. As an accounting concept, they start moving into vector interpretation of integers, so they may lose some ground there as well. So we just need to ensure that the balance is maintained between each of these interpretations.
Suchita Kadambi: So how can, sir? Can I log in through my phone?
Suchita Kadambi: Hello!
Sowmya A: Yeah, yeah, you sure you can.
Suchita Kadambi: Yeah, because my son has an online class, he needs the laptop. So can I just log out and log in through the phone.
Sowmya A: No worries, no worries. You can do that, but we are just almost coming to a close. I mean, if there are any things that you would like to. Anyone would like to bring up
Sowmya A: questions at.
Suchita Kadambi: Yes.
Ranjith P C: So can one request. I don't know whether it's possible. This questions which you're posting here? All these questions are very good questions. Okay? Because, as such questions of the quality is, if you can mention which grade it is was, you know, administrate, which one I mean, if you can. If you can mention that band also grade 8 or grade 9 or grade 6 to 8. That will give us a
Ranjith P C: very good understanding that you know this kind of questions, though the children are learning, you know, indigenous at the peripheral level in grade 6. Okay, the initial level. But this kind of questions have been asked in the competitive exam or assessment exam, like a set, so that also gives a sense to the teachers. Probably if you can mention the grade
Ranjith P C: for which it is administrated, then it will help us a thought to you know, internalize, and you know, moving forward with that.
Sowmya A: Yeah, I'll take that down, I think, for this set. We did not have it. I think I'll make sure that next time we do have.
Ranjith P C: Yeah, if you could do it, it will be great help for us. Thank you.
Sowmya A: Good.
Sowmya A: Yeah.
Sowmya A: Anything else from anyone.
Sowmya A: I'm sorry we had passed the hour. Yeah.
Aarthy B: I already spoke about T. 0 case.
Aarthy B: the B being the correct answer, I think it has.
Sowmya A: Yeah.
Aarthy B: The T not equal to 0 or other one not equal to 0 somewhere in that question has to be, because, as such, B does not satisfy because we order. We have to cater to all the Tq children as well. Right? What we give is correct
Aarthy B: should be objectively correct. They will come up with a case and counter. Say, for this it does not satisfy.
Sowmya A: Yeah. And also the meaning of, or is actually ambiguous in math. The meaning of, or is different from, the English or
Sowmya A: the English is an exhaust. Actually, so, there is some gap there also, I think, understanding what or means from logical operation versus how it is used in English. There is a gap in that also, because in case of math, the logical, or includes the and condition.
Sowmya A: so B will be actually a subset of a as well, whereas in English, or means either this or that, it can't be both.
Aarthy B: Yeah, because this is either or right, and we are targeting 6 to 8. So it is more with the English or not. The gates, idea and all will not even build by then. So that I think if you can give a feedback for this question, it might be useful.
Sowmya A: Yeah, we'll do that.
Sowmya A: Okay, can you talk to anyone?
Sowmya A: Okay? So yeah, by, I think within the next few days, we will be meeting alternately. Now we will have the teacher hour session on Wednesday, where I will be discussing the last set of assignments that you had done. In terms of what what the findings are. And then
Sowmya A: We will meet again after 2 weeks for the next session. Within that time I will be posting these assignments, which will be a set of questions, feel free to take some of these questions to your class, and finding your observations. But the objective is that you should be able to put forth your own views
Sowmya A: on how? What is the best way of solving these questions, and what might be the difficulties or challenges students might face. So we will be going through these assignments from time to time to see how what progress you are making, and if you have doubts you can always reach out to us.
Sowmya A: Okay, anything else from anyone.
Sowmya A: Thank you all for attending. Thank you for your patience, sir.
Ranjith P C: Thank you. Thank you.
Ranjith P C: Thank you, sir. Thank you.
Ranjith P C: It's okay.
Preetha Murali: You, sir.
RANJINI GOPALAKRISHNAN: Thank you.
Radha Sharma: Thank you, sir.
Sowmya A: Thank you. Thank you for that.
krithika S: Sir, I have a doubt.
krithika S: How to open this Google documents you told about that right? You showed the integer also right how to open it, sir. I can't see anything in my mail.
Sowmya A: I had sent a see if you there's an excel link that I had put in the Whatsapp group.
Sowmya A: If you.
krithika S: Sir, I am not in the Whatsapp group, Sir.
Sowmya A: Oh!
Sowmya A: Is it.
krithika S: Yes, sir.
Sowmya A: Okay, I'll add you today.
Sowmya A: But meanwhile I'll share the link with with you.
Sowmya A: This is the link. You can copy. Paste it somewhere.
Sowmya A: Let's see if you are able to open the resources folder.
Sowmya A: and I'll also give you the link to all the other.
krithika S: Can you put the link in the chat, sir, so that I can.
Sowmya A: I put it in the chat.
krithika S: No, sir, it was not there. That's fine.
Sowmya A: Yes.
krithika S: I can't see it.
Sowmya A: Yeah, I'm pasting it. Seed. Can you see on the screen? I'm pasting it.
krithika S: No, sir.
Sowmya A: My screen is shared. Can you see that I'm putting it there actually.
krithika S: Yes, sir. Now I can see it.
krithika S: Yeah, thank you.
Sowmya A: 1, 1, 1 more link is there. I will share that link to you with you.
Sowmya A: This link, this has all the other links in it.
krithika S: Sir? Do we have any Whatsapp group for this.
Sowmya A: Yeah, yeah, I'll I'll add you to the Whatsapp.
Sowmya A: Don't worry. Today. It's a Friday.
krithika S: Yes, sir, thank you so much.
Sowmya A: Thank you. Thank you.
krithika S: Thank you.
Aarthy B: Yes, sir, I got disconnected. I I didn't thank you enough. And then I just got logged in back. Thank you so much, sir.
Sowmya A: Thank you so much. Thank you for your inputs. Really nice.
Aarthy B: Your session.
Sowmya A: Yeah, bye.